and Brant has left the building. No, I am looking at my bookshelf and unfortunately I think that
one is at home. Yeah, anyway, Jim. So Alan. We're awful. We are so bad.
Welcome to AB testing podcast, your modern testing podcast. Your hosts, Alan and Brant,
will be here to guide you through topics on testing, leadership, agile, and anything else
that comes to mind. Now on with the show. Hey everybody. Howdy. Guess who? It's us. It's us.
Yeah. I'm Ted Cruz and I'm here to ask asinine dumb questions all day. That's what I'm good at.
No, I'm Alan. I'm Alan. I actually try to ask interesting questions that people care about,
but whatever, you know, you do you. How are you doing, Brant? It takes all kinds. I am surviving.
What does that mean, man? Oh, we are reorging. What is that? Is this a big reorg? You don't have
to go into details because it's Microsoft and it might affect the stock price. It's like the moon's
gravity affecting the tides. No. So are you in the windows org now? No. Just checking. So the,
there's a couple of things that I would talk about if it weren't for the fact that you can't
that we have actually three listeners. Yeah. The definitely would be either a C it would be a CLM
or an NDA violation to talk about it too deeply. But I will and most likely a CLM for those not
up to speed on the acronym, a career limiting move. Don't think it would be outside of
NDA though. But one of the issues that's happening, having right now is reorg was fundamentally based
off of something that was overbranded and to a degree where, at least in my view,
it's near vaporware. However, it's been branded so successfully that senior executives have asked
for it, want it. And they've executed a reorg where essentially 25% of my management team
or my manager's team is moving out. And as a result, the rest of us here had to figure out
how to continue to operate the business down 25%. So that's the different kind of reorg where your
org is some of your org has disappeared. So your charter has not. Right. Nor expectations. Oh,
and of course there are no Rex or headcount coming. Yeah. Yeah, that's fun. So I hear that too.
I think I can safely say it's not, probably not uncommon to hear statements like, okay,
you need to also do A, B and C and also we need to reduce your headcount spend.
You just go great. Well, this is a fun game. We'll figure out how to play this.
Yeah. I've had a manager, Brent, you need to let go of the tyranny of or
someone, someone watched too many Ted talks.
Yeah. I was just like, uh, okay. When you're ready to get off of whatever cloud of bullshit,
you're on it and actually get down to, to working with me to help solve this actual problem. Let me
know. Right. Otherwise I'm just gonna, I'm going to go have a meet with my team and struggle through
it. Yeah. Fun, fun, fun, fun stuff. How about you? Anything new?
You know, the work stuff I'm on the other end. I'm trying to figure out how to, not trying to
figure out it's a lot, it's a long path, a little bit of wackable and you have a large org
where it's been brought together from multiple orgs. It's a constant exercise in creating
alignment and clarity across the org. So everybody stays kind of going in the same
direction, but it's fun. It's a, you know, it's largely there. It's just pop up here,
just that pop up there, address that we're playing a fun game of what's the game called
where the goalposts keep moving? That's just, is there, is there, is there a metaphor there?
I don't know what it is. The fighting game where the goal, fun game, fun.
I'm not familiar. I got to think of a name for that. Like, uh, oh, it's like you ever
played flux, the card game. Yes. Where the rules change as you play that, that, uh, yeah.
So there you go. I want to write a version of that for managing a large software org
where the rules around budget keep on changing. And the goal is to hit your budget, even though
you don't know what it is until you've actually hit it because the rules keep changing. I think I
could say that isn't that Conbom. I don't know if you're joking or if that's your segue.
It's actually, I am not joking and it is handy as a segue.
So how is Conbom the same?
So Conbom, right? It enables, it enables flow. It enables you to have the ability to
start work based off of the best available knowledge and do so in a, in a, in a batch
model, like Conbom optum in terms of dealing with, um, dealing with the goalposts changes.
Changing Conbom is the perfect, uh, software model for that.
All right. Well, let's let's.
Great. Waterfalls the worst, right?
Yeah. Yeah. There's more complexity to it, but I better, I better, uh, cover myself as well.
But it's a fun game. The things we do as leaders, I think someday I'll talk about my model for
creating clarity and alignment, but, uh, maybe we'll do it today. Maybe not. Let's talk about
Conbom. What is Conbom? No, that's not it. So somebody in one of the three dot slack.com are
slack group, which you can get a free invitation to by going to modern testing.org. Uh, we don't
charge for it. You can just come join in, hang out, ask questions. Uh, people are very helpful
there. Someone, I think Percy, I could be wrong pointed out this website called con bond board
game.com. This is actually based on a simulation that I've done before many years ago, where you
play a game where you are assigning people to do tasks on a con bond board over many, many weeks
in order to try and generate the most revenue for your company. And little,
little things come up as you play. So Brent and I have both played this. Uh, we're going to talk
about a little bit about how we approached the game, but it might be fun before we go into it.
I don't know if Brent, if you want to do around right here alive in 10 minutes, or if we should
just talk about our strategy. Uh, but we played, uh, just the simulation on con bond board game.com.
Go ahead and bring it up. We'll wait. Pause your podcast and Brent doesn't know how much money he
made. I didn't make the leaderboard. I did. All right. I made $40,000, $40,000 fake dollars.
I don't get any money in our account for this, but it was fun. So all that intro side,
what do you want to do, Brent? Uh, why don't we do both? Why don't we start it up and, and, and
act like we are an executive committee firmly command and controlling the con bond board.
All right. I don't know if I like that or not, but, uh, let's, let's get into it. So I'm going to,
there's a little announcement on the simulation. What did I do wrong? I said,
start a new game. You got to click one of those. I got to click standard game, standard game. All
right. Blah, blah, blah, blah. Directions who, who reads the directions? Come on. So we have here,
just if you're playing along, we're on day nine of a project. There's a bunch of stuff in progress.
The board is full. Uh, we have three testers, two developers, two product managers, and we are
trying to get stuff out in order to make money. We haven't made any money yet. Have a brand.
Nope. None. All right. How should we make money? I'll talk about what we're doing here. Right now,
we have, uh, everybody has the same board start off with, we have three stories and test, uh, two
in that are ready for tests, but we can't get into the board because you reached whip.
Dev is at whip as far as work getting done. Kind of everybody's at whip.
Everybody's at, everybody's at limit. So the, where, where our pipeline is full of stuff
and the name of the game and combine is flow. So what did we do first, Brent?
Well, so in for everyone in the game, um, not playing along Alan and I are doing an experiment.
Uh, obviously this is not a video cast, but so in this particular game,
right? We have to get things to done. Right? So the, so the first thing I'm going to call out
the thing I adore about Kanban and, and I think it was, I think I picked this up
from Alan through who was the guy that did personal Kanban. I know you get the memory.
Oh God. Um, I do. I do. It's on my bookshelf. My headphones, Jim, Jim, Jim, Jim, Jim, Jim is right. Jim
and brand has left the building. No, I am looking at my bookshelf. And unfortunately I think that
one is at home. Yeah. Anyway, Jim, so we're awful. We talk so bad.
You know, I can go to Amazon personal because I remember the book. Personal Kanban, Jim Benson.
Benson. Thank you for, uh, this is why we only have three listeners.
Okay. It's because he reason it's a key, key reason. Now let's see if I can remember why I brought that
up in the first place. Oh, I doubt it. Yeah. So Kanban, I believe I'm attributing this to him.
It's either him or Al. Okay. The main difference between Kanban and scrum is that in Kanban,
it's all about what you finish. Finishing is what's important. Not starting. Right? So Kanban,
you pull. So regardless of what you're using for project management, I tell my team all the time,
focus on finishing, not on doing. Get stuff done. The neat thing about Kanban is you focus on finish
and then you operate pull right as you have capacity. When you finish, you pull the next
capacity and you pull and pull. So it's like a vacuum that continuously flows. All right. So right
now we actually have bottlenecks in every column. We look at this and we see that we're at WIP in
test Devin and analysis. I'm going to just call that PM from here right now. Yeah, a couple call
PM. We're, we are, we have a bottleneck in every column, uh, but it's absolutely clear that we
need to bottleneck or de-bottleneck, uh, test. Right. Cause nothing else can, nothing else can
move forward until that test column is complete. Right now I see that you have allocated two heads.
I'm just moving stuff around. Will you talk? Oh, okay. There's a couple of things you can do
there. You could, I could, I could add people who aren't testers. Those column to add it. It's a,
if you're not looking at the game, it's a little, uh, the game is that if the person is doing the
tasks they're assigned to do, they're going to be twice or their specialty. They're going to be
twice as productive, but it is a random number of boxes of work, unnecessary boxes. They get done.
So doubling up or adding more folks to it. If you really need to get the column clear
isn't a horrible idea. Yeah. Uh, but we don't need to get the column clear. We only need to create
capacity. And so my decision when I'm doing, when I was playing this is I was, uh, focusing on where
is the ROI. Okay. So, uh, Alan, we have three tickets. Alan has currently added,
how do we play along this? So when I am looking at this one, no, no, that's absolutely wrong.
Absolutely right. Keep talking, Brett. Yeah. Talking. No, don't look at what I'm doing.
Yeah. That might make for a better podcast. Of course. So number one, we got to finish.
You can't move them into the right. Yeah. I know. I know. I'm just, I'm just trying to distract you.
It's working very, very well. Okay. So in the test column, we're going to just put,
I agree with you. Just put one tester on each of them. The only thing I would think of is maybe
put two. So I don't know if putting two on what's on the S two ticket is going to get that done
sooner. Like I, I don't really care. So that what you have there is fine by me in terms of the
developer stories. So the green ticket, what's the benefit of the green tickets? Oh, those are,
um, I think it's a, it's an intangible. It's an intangible, but I think those speed us up.
I think so too. They give us some bonus. I forget how it works because I didn't read the,
I didn't read the instructions. Okay. So let I, those tickets are done. I would put the developer
instead of on the one 20 ticket, cause that takes too much time. I would put it on the
intangible. All right. And then we have a PM left. Sure. All right. You ready? Yeah. This is,
we're not going to do this for every round. People will be bored and quit. So we have,
we have assigned some people to some tasks and we got some work done. We got two items to complete.
Maybe we get three, we got two items to complete and stuff moves around on the board magically. And,
and we moved stuff over. So we've completed the first day. They throw in some cool stuff on stuff
has to be done by a certain day, or if it's done by a certain day, if you choose to do it,
you can get some extra stuff. Like right now we have one on our backlog. It's
has to get done by day 25. We don't need to start it yet. It has to get them in five days.
Oh, I forgot. We started on day 10. No, this one doesn't. It's day 10. The one in ready is
due on date 15. Oh, I didn't see that one. Well, we should pull that one in.
It's doing three days till we, till we do the game. Let's pull that one over. Okay. We're not
going to do the whole thing here. We're going to pull some stuff around on the board.
It's a fun little game of combine. We'll get that one up there. Blah, blah, blah.
What do you think here? Would you double up on the big task or just look like I work on his own?
I would let him work it on his own, but I'm not certain. Is that when we've already started?
When you say that one S S five. All right. We have not started testing it and we just pulled it over.
All right. I would put it back to the dev backlog and I would take I one instead.
So I'm doing the architectural improvement. Gotcha. Because that's going to speed us up.
And now that's what we're going to do. Fair enough. So anyway, it's the goal is to get stuff
through and we're doing it very quickly here. And I realized that it's kind of boring,
but I encourage you to try the game and go through it. It is not just Kanban,
but a little bit of systems thinking you have to look at what's on the whole board
and optimize for optimized for getting stuff done.
I think it's, I found it to be very well done on teaching the concepts. Like for me,
the thing that's a little awkward is the additional thing of, right. In my organization,
I don't have PM Dev test. Right, right. They're going off a specialist, which is it's fine.
So having gone through the live version of this before, it's interesting. Like both you and I,
we recognize right away that all the columns are full and nothing's going to move till test is
full till test is done. Right. So a lot of people didn't, in new to Kanban did not recognize that
right away. They didn't realize the importance of getting stuff done. So my advice, if you're going
through this game is focus not on working, not on doing focus on finishing and you will do quite
well. Well, yeah. And then in real life, in real life, the, the, so I, back in the day, I
walked people through conversion to Kanban, right. And once they get things moving, right. And they,
they then start to argue on the whip. Mm hmm. Right. And there's a point in this game,
if I recall when whip goes away and you can screw with it, I never did. No, yes. No, no, no.
They do. Well, there's a couple of things that's great about the game. Like suddenly all your test
team dies or, you know, gets like exactly it, but yeah, whatever. They suddenly all get sick.
You're like, well, wait a minute. Test is my bottleneck and all of my test team are sick
and out of office. What do I do? What do I do? Well, of course, everyone that's a listener of
this podcast knows what to do. It's well, put somebody else on it. Yeah. And that's what I love
to see in the end. And I didn't look at the other version of this game. Actually, it works the same.
I know how it works. I would love to see a version of this where maybe it wouldn't be as fun with
the little gotchas that come up, but something, a version that was considered generalizing specialists
and maybe it's not worth, maybe it's not worth the effort. I think there's enough learning in
here. And especially I would recommend if you're getting used to Kanban and you want to get some
value out of it is play the game a couple of times, try experiments, because it doesn't hurt anything.
If you make a bad choice and you, and you get a poor score and the score means nothing, but it
means that you're getting ideas on how to optimize flow, given a bunch of different information.
Yeah. Yeah. No, I think the game very well simulates the majority of my experience
ever since shifting to Kanban. I don't get actual paid money. I don't actually have a PM and
test team generally, but everything else is straight up. Like my currency, but you can
change your currency to other things. I'm a data scientist. I produce a lot of things that
use and consume data. If I build a report, you bet I'm instrumenting it so I can see who cares.
Who's like the point of data science that I think I've shared on this before, but the data
sciences job is essentially to automate decision-making. If no one's using decisions it can
make, what's the point of it? Not at all. None zero is of course the answer. So I want to pay
attention to that because I'm like, oh, well, I can de-invest in that one and go pick up one
of these other things that I've been deferring because the PMs had told me this was important.
Well, now I know the truth. It's not. A short story is go check out Kanban Board Game.
Worth giving a shot. It's fun to talk about. And it's a good, I think we both agree,
it's a good simulation. It sort of matches the real world. Remember the days when we actually
had a little outline and stuff we'd put on the whiteboard and we'd use that to have a
more structured discussion instead of just completely winging it? Remember those days?
Yes, I do.
Those were weird.
I do.
I have a question for you from our Slack channel.
And I'm curious because I talked about this many years ago. Well, even before we talked about
modern testing, I think I first read this in McConnell's book and he referenced it somewhere
else, but it was the, and this is actually from what's his face. I think this may even
be from Capers Jones, but I could be wrong. The concept that gets repeated a lot, which
is the earlier you catch a bug, the cheaper it will be to fix. I have a reaction on that.
I'm curious what yours is.
The earlier you catch a bug, the cheaper it will be to fix.
I generally agree with that.
I think it's a myth.
I don't.
So I think the reason I think it's a myth is two reasons. I think it depends on the bug.
Some bugs are very easy to fix at any time in the whenever you find them.
Right.
I understand the premise of it. The idea is that there takes time to get really familiar with the
code, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. But I would argue that for huge classes of bugs,
they're just as easy to fix at any time, whether it's the day I introduced it or
five years after someone else introduced it.
When I see it referred to, it's an absolute, but it's, it's a half truth. It's a myth.
No, I don't.
I don't.
I don't agree with that.
Tell me why.
So I'm going to go the other way. Right. When, when I first started, since we talked about
Kanban and when I first started doing Kanban and deploying the production systems using it,
one of the things that I realized is by continuously flow, right.
And I've, I've talked about it on the podcast a couple of times or at times where
my team would deploy something and everything would be down.
It would be down. However, because we caught it quick, we knew exactly what we needed to revert.
And, and because we were going in small batches, we knew exactly where to look.
And because we had just checked in yesterday, we didn't have to spend time reverse engineering.
And that is the huge advantage of small changes.
It's, it's the hugest advantage of small changes. It's, it's a huge advantage of catching things
quickly as well with those small changes. So there are, there are other aspects.
For example, there are, there are pieces in my team today.
Not today. Yesterday, we had what we called a swarm ticket and it's a rare event,
something where we have, we had as of yesterday, technical debt in monitoring.
Something went really bad that we were able to detect it yesterday,
but it's in a code that no one knows. And so someone has to go down now
because the person who wrote the code left the team. So someone now has to go down
and find the bug and fix it.
There's, there's two things in play there. And again, it's not an absolute. I do not,
all bugs are not created equal. And in the case where you have a systemic issue that the owner
isn't there in complex code, of course it's more expensive to fix later when you don't have the
person with the expertise to know it was in their head when they wrote it there.
I absolutely believe it. And I, well, I'll actually refer to 11 years ago,
11 years ago, 11 years ago, I wrote a paper and gave a presentation at P and SQC on
called an introduction to customer focused test design. That sounds so non-modern test.
Maybe I don't know. Anyway, gave a paper introduction to customer focused test design,
talking about how we can focus test design on customer scenarios versus a bunch of damn
functional testing. Because even at the time I was writing developers should do that functional
testing when they're writing their code. But the idea is that the cost of change for a design or an
architecture issue or something that is fundamentally broken does go up over time because you, that,
that knowledge of what you need to fix it can escape very quickly. You have to get the whole
system back into your head in order to fix it. But for a functional bug where you just wrote maybe
a bad unit test or didn't write a unit test for one thing, the cost of change curve for those
is basically flat. It may go up a little bit, but it's not that traditional curve.
The cost of finding the bug or the cost of fixing the bug, like the actual amount
of code to change depends on number one, the loading slash the learning costs, right?
And the actual, the cost of the implementation. Like if you had, if you had an architectural error,
in some regards, when people, so the first time I heard this, like the cost of a bug increases as
it goes down, right? It was the old waterfall days, right? But they inappropriately associated
it with a timeline, right? If you're doing big design upfront and you have this, this quote unquote
beautiful architecture, and it's going to take you nine months to even do the first test.
And in that first test, you find that there's a bug, right? It doesn't have to, yeah, the cost of
the bug is expensive because it's not because of time. It's because you, you took, you waited
nine months to do your first test. You didn't fail fast. It's a problem with big design upfront,
not to your point, that part, I agree. Which Kent Beck book was it? I think it was
extreme programming book. He also argued, and I think I didn't find this till afterwards.
It came out before my presentation. Yeah. Because XP has been around since 2002 or so.
I remember in the XP book when I finally read it, he also wrote a fairly flat cost of change
curve just due to iteration and feedback loops. But I guess it depends on what we call cost,
right? The cost of actually changing the code is going to be the same no matter what.
It's the additional costs, right? How much does the cost to ramp up?
Again, I think we're largely in agreement, maybe not on semantics, because yes,
if the cost is the same, yeah, then the cost of change curve is flat.
So it's two things go into additional cost. One is any additional time needed for
the developer to regain context or to add new work around it as needed. If there's dependencies,
for example, there's cost in there that could grow. But really, it's the cost of also impact
on the customer. And it used to be in the old days, there was a cost incurred needing to patch
the customer and get them to download a new bin and sending the bits out sometimes by mail
to go back to the early 90s. Right. But we just update stuff all with
tight feedback groups. We update stuff all the time.
The cost is going to be dependent on how good your design is in the first place and
how well the bug is strung through to dependencies. If I have an interface bug and I go, oh, crap,
I'm going to have to change my interface and I have 50,000 different other systems depending on it
on the interface contract. Yeah, that bug's going to be expensive.
Right. But it's because the design was bad up front and I did something wrong early on. It has
nothing to do with how long it took. I'm basically moving over to the only place,
I'm more on your side than I was on my side in the beginning of this,
Alan. The only additional cost of delay is, okay, do you have to redo things like the person has
left a team. So now you need to have somebody start up again. It's the knowledge cost I'll call it.
Cool. Cool, man. Hey, I saw on Twitter, I got mentioned in a tweet because Speckflow,
which is Speckflow still around. Is that still the, maybe someone bought it. It's still around.
Anyway, Speckflow from speckflow.org, they tweeted the book of the week is how we test software at
Microsoft. And they tagged me and they tagged BJ who hasn't been on Twitter in like 10 years.
Oh my God. I'm not even sure. I did hear from BJ a couple of years ago. I think he's alive
and I still remember I don't have on my bookshelf, but I should go grab it. There's,
hold on. I got to read you my favorite line from how we test software at Microsoft.
Yeah. Why did they tweet that? All right. Well, I pull it up. I don't know if I ever told you this.
So, uh, it was Ken Johnston that came to me and said, Hey, you're doing a lot of stuff,
collecting information. You should write a book on how we test software at Microsoft.
And I said, and Ken was my boss and I was enjoying excellence. And I said, okay,
I can do that. I think I have an idea. What's in my head. Cause I had a pretty good,
I had talked to a lot of teams and a good idea in my head. And I said, Ken, can I take, well,
I do this as part of my job. He said, yeah, we'll give you time to do it.
So when you fill out a form for MS press to propose a book, what you do is say,
do you want to get, are you going to work on this on your own time and get paid for it
or on company time and not get any commissions? And I said, well, my boss has given me time.
It's my job. I'm just going to write the book. And then Ken went and got a new job.
And my new boss said, screw that. I don't need to do it on your own time. So absolutely zero,
zero proceeds, uh, from how we test software at Microsoft went to BJ and Ken and I, uh,
and of course the book is dated and, and MS press were fair to work with. But anyway,
it was an experience. I think it's chapter six. I have to read.
Oh my God. I'm rereading. I found the, the tweet. There's no replies on it.
No, I liked it. No, I now I can't find it. Yeah. The book shares best practices,
tools and systems used by the companies testers used is, is very appropriate here. So
talks about the systems that were used back when we had testers.
You know, when I go through this book, it's not quite as horrible as I sometimes give it
non-credit for. I think it definitely comes out like it definitely comes out as written by three
different people. Like I wrote, I like to say I wrote, I counted the pages once, but I wrote,
I wrote most of it. BJ wrote two chapters and Ken wrote two chapters. BJ's chapters are all around
like textbook functional testing and which we taught at the time to our testers. But in
hindsight, I don't know if I would have done that. If I could go back in time.
No, no. So I, I, I had the, uh, the, the test, uh, the book as well. Matter of fact,
I had to find that cause I have a section someplace where I keep all of my signed books
and your book is in there. All right. Well, I can't find the story, but it's, it's, but I do
think writing is I just, I'll show you this before I forget is he has this like run on compound
sentence full of long words and, and it's really like what? And the next sentence is,
while that seems very simple, blah, blah, blah. And I, I made fun of him. I said,
how did this get by editing? How did this get by our peer reviews? I don't know what happened,
but that's yeah. So anyway, I'm not sure. I'm not sure who manages the spec flow account.
I feel like it's an automated tweet set up like 10 years ago to, to, to talk about the book.
I do think it's an excellent, excellent historical book.
It is. It's a snapshot. And if you have the book, check out that picture of me on the back
cover. It is not the, not the picture you see today with the Alan who's growing a beard instead
of sourdough for, for a lot of people, a lot of people for the pandemic being stuck at home. They,
they made sourdough bread. I grew a beard. Yeah. Do you have the ponytail yet?
I could, if I wanted. So you're actually still cutting your hair.
No, my hair's long. I know. I mean, my hair is long enough. I could put it in a ponytail.
I don't usually do it. Let's need to keep my hair out of my face.
Okay. So I'm, I'm going now that my hair and beard are so long,
I'm actually going to travel again for work. I'm going to Montreal in May for a little teeny
offsite with our leadership team. Yeah. So, and I'm actually, you know, I'm not quite ready for
this. I'm getting used to seeing the world, to seeing people. I went into the office,
mentioned last podcast. I went into the office for a while. I need to go to Copenhagen sometime too.
So I got to figure that out. Oh, you're going to fly.
I'm flying to Canada also going to Montreal too far to drive.
Oh yeah. I'm not quite ready for that. Yeah. I get that. I get that. I hope that I, I,
I'm not quite ready either, but at some point we're just going to have to roll the dice and
get out there. I actually talked to someone last week who said, so have you not had COVID yet?
Like it was a thing like that was weird for me not to be in the, in club COVID.
I have not been. Yeah, actually. So I, my daughter turned 12 and we waited on her until,
until she turned 12. So she's now completed on March 11th. She actually completed her
second dose. Oh cool. And her reaction to it was very much like mine. It was like,
uh, arm hurts cause I got a shot and kind of tired, right? It took my wife out. I may have,
my daughter may have, and it's a good chance that, that, well, I don't know. Who knows. And, uh,
honestly, I'll just say like, except for like my fear of flying that I have to, I have to think
about now because on the COVID side, I'm just done with COVID. I'm done with it. I'm like, great.
If it, if COVID wants to take me out, then take me out. Cause I'm going back to living life.
That's, that's kind of my perspective. So what is it then that you don't want to fly for?
Uh, so I, it, it, it occurs to me that I have now a two year inset fear of flying due to be
trapped because of the COVID it's now subconscious because I don't want to be trapped in a freaking
box with surrounded by COVID infested human beings.
Yet at the same time, you said you don't care. You just want to live your life. So
you need to, you have some cognitive dissonance you need to resolve.
Right. My, the absolutely subconscious and conscious are not talking to each other.
Completely agree. I'm sure this has happened to you. I don't know how many people are going to
work, but on a lot of my big team meetings that I see, there will be people together in a meeting
room on the call. And it's weird to look at. I'm used to the total Brady bunch. Every little
box in zoom gets one face and one face only. And when that's changed, it's, it's like, what
I have had this week alone is now Friday. I have had three separate meetings
in an actual conference room with other people in the conference room with me.
What's it like talking to someone in the 3d world?
It's wacky, right? Actually. And you can see there, like you can see on my whiteboard,
bunch of scribbles. That was actually a meeting I had in my office earlier today. We were going
through an architecture, just the company secrets right there on your screen.
Right. And, and then, uh, yeah, I should probably do something about that.
It's not like you could read any of it though. Maybe AKS and pickles.
Yep. That's what I wrote down for my notebook. So it's weird. I actually, I've been thinking about
this and I think there is a weirdness, like some of us do want to get back and get used to being
around people. And there's, there's value in that if you just described, but it's awkward.
It's for me, at least it is. It's awkward seeing people and talking to people in person. It's
weird. I'm not, I it's, I want to be ready for it, but I'm not ready for it.
Well, so there's, there is, there is an aspect of that. I am not ready for,
like I have spent two years essentially being the only one in my building, right? Essentially,
it's not entirely true. There's been, there's been about 10 cars here, but essentially my building
has been a ghost town. And I'm like, Oh, what happens if in a couple of months, we go back to
the days where someone's knocking on my door, like every five minutes, I'm like, Oh my God,
that's good drive. Because I've gotten accustomed to peace, quiet. Someone tries to call me on
zoom and I don't want to talk to them. Oh yeah, I'm not in my office. Am I right? It's certain
things like that. Yeah. It's going to be, there's going to be a culture shift back for sure. And
it's all good. Yeah. And I think I don't know how it is with you. Like I am not requiring anyone on
my team to go back to work as their choice, but I'm not either. I'm beginning to feel like though,
and here's where, you know, a worthy of a quick conversation. I'm beginning to feel like
there's people that think they don't want to go back to work who maybe should go back a day or two
once in a while. Just try to figure out how to describe this, this feeling. Like when I went
to the office, I got a lot of work done. I saw some people. It was, it was good for my productivity
and good for my mental health. And I wonder if like I'm going in, like I want to go in again to
the office regularly because of that. I wonder if people, they're so used to working from home,
they've been very productive for working from home, but I wonder if they will realize,
if they realize what they may be missing by not coming to the office once in a while.
There's going to be some of that, like here, here at Microsoft,
we gave everybody, they had to proactively declare, but we gave everybody
the option, which is entirely work from home, entirely, basically you're given three choices.
Work from home, four choices. Work from home, entirely work from office, entirely
work from office greater than 50% or less than 50%. That last option, work from office less than 50%
is the least selected option. Because if you do that, Microsoft is proactively informed
that your desk then is at risk. Yeah, it's weird there. So I know you're in your own office is most
of Microsoft, it's a combination, right? Some buildings have their own offices, some are split
up. So us, like I've told them, I don't want to desk. Like if I go to the office, I'll be in
meetings, I'll be visiting people. We have plenty of touchdown spaces. I don't need a desk. Right.
So that's, so touchdown spaces is what Microsoft is going to do this. So to satisfy the people
that are less than 50%, but it's change and human beings by nature don't like change.
What works for us is we were, we kind of had that open seating before. So when I go in now,
I reserve a desk, it's a different one every time. Every desk has two monitors on it with
cabling to plug into your computer. And I just do that. I bring my own keyboard and mouse in
and I sit down and I get to work. And I can do that anywhere in any Unity office. And the other
interesting thing is, is that we are, I know Seattle probably for sure. And some other offices,
I think Montreal is in this state where if everybody actually went back, we wouldn't have
enough desks for them anyway. Right. Because we've done a lot of hiring during the pandemic
and not as much as we've done building. I think. No, Microsoft's had a big problem with that going
into the pandemic. Not as much now, probably have some extra chairs now.
No, no, no. So the issue is, is that we were growing rapidly and it was becoming a problem
to try to figure out how, where we're going to put these people. Right. It was a sort of a, how,
what we couldn't build buildings fast enough. And so now everything's all changed. Like a whole bunch
of people have come a whole bunch of people have, have left. There have been people who have
spent their entire short career at Microsoft entirely in COVID. Yeah. We have, we have,
I have, I could look at my team. I should sometime. A big chunk of my team has never seen
an office. Well, some of us starting to go. In fact, I had one employee started the April of 2020.
His team in my org just had a little mini team get together in this office in San Francisco.
And he said, it's the first time since I joined the company two years ago, I feel like I'm part of a
team. So there is that. All right. We, we have talked and babbled and done some other stuff
and we got to get going. I am still not Ted Cruz. Cause I'm Alan and I have a brain and
in Brent is Ted Cruz with the brain. All right. Perfect. All right. We'll see you next time.
Thank you everybody. Bye.